travelu/README.md, before:

# Travelu

Travelu is an application made to let people have a simple and organized way of looking at places they have been and things they have done. The app lets you have an overview over the destinations you have visited. Additionally, it lets you add a description, rating, arrival and departure date, and a list of activities you have done at each destination. This will let users look back at experiences they have had at specific places. The app is meant to be used by people who travel and want to have a system to store all of their memories and experiences in one organized app.

To have a visual representation of what we are going to make, we have created pictures showing what the app is supposed to look like at the end of development. We made two frames in Figma. One for the front-page with a list over places you have been and another one for the destination page containing information about a spesific destination. The plan is to be able to click on a destination on the front page to get transfered to the page with information about that destination.

### Front Page
![image info](/pictures/TraveluFrontPage.png)

### Destination Page
![image info](/pictures/TraveluDestinationPage.png)

Commit message:

docs: clarify that travelu pictures are a guideline

travelu/README.md, after:

# Travelu

Travelu is an application made to let people have a simple and organized way of looking at places they have been and things they have done. The app lets you have an overview over the destinations you have visited. Additionally, it lets you add a description, rating, arrival and departure date, and a list of activities you have done at each destination. This will let users look back at experiences they have had at specific places. The app is meant to be used by people who travel and want to have a system to store all of their memories and experiences in one organized app.

To have a visual representation of what we are going to make, we have created pictures showing what the app could look like at the end of development. Our plan is not to design an app that looks exactly like the pictures, but to use them as a guideline for the design of the app. We also made them to show how we could improve the look of the app further if we were going to continue development.

We made two frames in Figma. One for the front-page with a list over places you have been and another one for the destination page containing information about a spesific destination. You can click on a destination on the front page to get transferred to the page with information about that destination.

### Front Page
![image info](/pictures/TraveluFrontPage.png)

### Destination Page
![image info](/pictures/TraveluDestinationPage.png)
