docs/qualityAssurance/testCoverage.md, before:

# Test Coverage with JaCoCo

[JaCoCo](https://www.jacoco.org/jacoco/), short for Java Code Coverage, is a tool used for analyzing code for test-coverage.

Note that JaCoCo checks whether the code is executed.  
This means that even though the results show 100% test-coverage, it doesn't mean that everything is tested satisfactory.

## Running
- `cd travelu` to change into project-folder

Then run either:

- `mvn verify` run appropriate lifecycle for checkstyle
- `mvn install` will also run `verify` phase

## The report
There are several ways to view the report:

### In-terminal
Run `mvn jacoco:report` to get an in-terminal shorthand run and report.

### In your browser
In the respective module find `target/site/jacoco/index.html` and open the file in a browser. You can do this by opening the HTML file from your file manager.

### The executable
JaCoCo generates an executable which can be used for viewing the report.  

Note that this functionality is not yet implemented and can therefore be ignored.


## Report Example
![JaCoCo-report-demo](/pictures/JaCoCoReportDemo.png)



## Sources
- [JaCoCO homepage](https://www.jacoco.org/jacoco/)  
- [Baeldung tutorial](https://www.baeldung.com/jacoco)

Commit message:

docs: explain UI tests fail when server is running

docs/qualityAssurance/testCoverage.md, after:

# Test Coverage with JaCoCo

[JaCoCo](https://www.jacoco.org/jacoco/), short for Java Code Coverage, is a tool used for analyzing code for test-coverage.

Note that JaCoCo checks whether the code is executed.  
This means that even though the results show 100% test-coverage, it doesn't mean that everything is tested satisfactory.

## Running
- `cd travelu` to change into project-folder

Then run either:

- `mvn verify` run appropriate lifecycle for checkstyle
- `mvn install` will also run `verify` phase

**NOTE:** The UI tests will fail if you have a spring-boot server running when you run the tests. You can either stop the server or run the tests with the `-DskipUITests=true` flag.

## The report
There are several ways to view the report:

### In-terminal
Run `mvn jacoco:report` to get an in-terminal shorthand run and report.

### In your browser
In the respective module find `target/site/jacoco/index.html` and open the file in a browser. You can do this by opening the HTML file from your file manager.

### The executable
JaCoCo generates an executable which can be used for viewing the report.  

Note that this functionality is not yet implemented and can therefore be ignored.


## Report Example
![JaCoCo-report-demo](/pictures/JaCoCoReportDemo.png)



## Sources
- [JaCoCO homepage](https://www.jacoco.org/jacoco/)  
- [Baeldung tutorial](https://www.baeldung.com/jacoco)
