# Workflow and work-habits

## Scrum
There are a lot of different frameworks for product management one can use to have a structured and effective development process. However, scrum is one of the frameworks that emphasize continous communication and teamwork. 

In the group we have decided on one person to be both scrum master and project manager. The project manager needs to know what the team members are developing and the scrum master needs to know if they are using scrum correctly while doing it. Both need a clear overview over what the team is doing and we therefore find it suiting to give both roles to one person since we are such a small team. The three other group members have the roles of being part of the team. The team members have developing as their main responsibility.

A big part of scrum is to have an iterative process where you get feedback from your client for each sprint which you can use to redirect your product on to the right path. In this way, the the team figures out what the end product should look like while developing instead of having a clear vision of the end goal from the beginning. Since we are not getting any feedback along the way, the iterative part of scrum is lost. To make up for this, we take a look at the functionality of the app at the end of each sprint and reflect over what works fine and what needs improvement to make a clear path for what needs to be done forwards.

## Sprints
Each time our group is handed a new assignment, we set up sprints to have a concrete plan of what we are going to do next. Usually we create one sprint per week. This makes it so the group spreads the work evenly across weeks which helps us avoid having to do most of the work in a couple of days before the deadline. Having sprints is a good way of creating deadlines for which issues we will finish at what time and creates a straightforward plan for what needs to be done.

### Meetings
Each week we arrange at least two meetings. The first one being on monday and the second one on friday. 

Each meeting on mondays is split in half. The first half is dedicated to a sprint review where the group looks back at the last sprint and reflected over what worked well and what didn't. We then try to find out why and use this figure out how we can do things better the next sprint.

The second half of the meeting on mondays are spent on sprint planning. Having thoughts from the sprint review fresh in mind here makes it easier to make a plan based on our reflections regarding the last sprint. We have therefore set up the sprint review and sprint planning right after each other. In the sprint planning meeting we discuss what we are going to accomplish in the next sprint and how we are going to accomplish it. This involves creating issues, assigning them to the group members and setting up additional meetings for developing together. A clear plan makes the development process less stressful and gives the group members a good overview over what is going to be done during the next few days. When each member knows what they have to do until the next meeting, they can more easily get to work and be effective.

The other meetings we have are treated as daily scrums. Here discuss what we have done so far and what we are going to do today so that we make sure everyone is keeping track of what is being done. After a quick catch-up, we talk about any problems we have encountered while developing. Sometimes a member can be stuck on a problem for a long time when another member on the team has a solution. Therefore, going over problems with the entire group can save a lot of time. When the problems have been discussed, we then end the meeting and start to develop together.

### Issues
Each time we are given a new group assignment, we analye the problem and divide it into subtasks. We then create an issue for each of the individual tasks that needs to be done. The issues involve creating documentation, classes, tests, methods and more. The issues helps us by defining clear goals that makes it easy to go from one task to the next and removes uncertainty. To have a good overview over all the tasks we have a scrum board that contains all the issues.

When it comes to choosing who does what, we try to make it so everyone gets to both program and write documentation. This is beneficial because it makes for a stronger connection between code and documentation as well as allowing for more variation in each members work. We start of by assigning some issues to the members of the group. If some issues are correlated, we assign the correlating issues to the same group member. After this, we get to work and create and assign more issues when we feel the need to. Even though we try to cover all of the tasks needing to be done with issues, there are inevitably going to be issues like bug fixing and handy features that are going to emerge along the way.

Each issue has some key information that makes it easier to catogorise and understand them. They all have a title and description explaining what needs to be done to solve the issue. The issues are also given a time estimate which lets us approximate how much time we need to set asside to complete the issues before the end of the sprint. Additionally, we give each issue multiple labels to make it easy to recognize what type of issue it is. Issues revolving writing documentation for example gets the label "documentation". Other similar labels are "tests", "frontend", "backend", and "enhancement". We also give label to show priority and state of the issues like "high priority" and "doing" if it is a high priority task that is currently being worked on.

### Programming flow
Every time we are going to work on an issue, we assign ourself to it, give it the label "doing" and create a merge request for it. By creating a merge request, we show everyone what we are working on while simultaneously create a branch were the work is going to be done. Here we use the branch naming convention "issuenumber-type-issuename" from https://codingsight.com/git-branching-naming-convention-best-practices/. When working on issues, we try to have a structured way of working on each problem by working at one place in the code at a time. If we work on code in multiple methods, we place the code for each method in their own commit messages. This makes it easy to revert back to old changes and immediately have a understanding of what the commit was about. When writing commmit messages we use the convention "type: message" written in present form from https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#specification.

Furthermore, we develop both together and for ourselves. When we are implementing simple methods and writing documentation we tend to do this individually. This allows us to develop without being together and can save time if the tasks aren't that demanding. When we develop without being together, we focus on having continous communication between the group members to make sure everyone is always up to date on what everyone is doing.

However, when we are working on complex problems like modularization and implementing complicated methods, we prefer to program in pairs. This is because it is easy to get lost in the many small but important details of complex problems while developing and having two people looking at the same problem at once makes it easier to always have a good overview over the project and remember those details. When you are two people programming together you can also continously discuss what the best way to implement something is. We find developing in pairs and individually to both have their use cases and switching between them to be the best way to develop.